Arrive exciting tutorial ahead.
Welcome back to the course on deep learning.
Today we're talking about how neural networks work.
Now we've led a lot of ground work we've talked about how neural networks are structured what elements
they consist of and even their functionality.
And today we're going to look at a real example of how unusual neural network can be applied and we're
actually going to work step by step through the process of its application so we know what's going on.
So let's have a look what example we're going to be talking about.
We're going to be looking at a property evaluation so we're going to look at a neural network that takes
in some parameters of our property and value values.
And the thing here.
There's a small caveat for today's tutorial and that is we're not actually going to train the network.
So a very important part in neural networks is training them up and we are going to look at that in
the next tutorials in this section.
For now we're going to focus on the actual applications that we're going to work with a neural network
that we're going to pretend is already trained up and that will allow us to focus on the application
side of things and not get bogged down in the training aspect and then will cower off the training when
we already know the end goal we're working towards.
Sounds good.
All right let's jump straight into it.
So let's say we have some input parameters.
Right so let's say we have four parameters about the property we have area in square feet.
We have the number of bedrooms that distance the city and Miles the New York City and the age of the
property and all of those four are going to comprise our input layer.
Now of course they're probably way more parameters that define the price of a property but for simplicity's
sake we're going to look at just these for now in its very basic form a neural network only has an input
learn an output there so no hidden layers and our output layer is the price that we're predicting.
So in this form what these inputs variables would do is they would just be weighted up by the syllabuses
and then the output there would be calculated basically the price of recalculate and we get a price.
And for instance the price can be calculated as simple as the weighted sum of all of the inputs.
And again here you could use pretty much any function you could use.
What we're using now.
We could use any of the activation functions we had previously you could use logistic regression you
could use a squared function you could approach anything here.
But the point is that you get a certain output.
And moreover most of the machine learning algorithms that exist can be represented in this form.
This is basically diagrammatic representation of how you deal with the variables by changing the way
it's a formalised.
You can accomplish quite a lot of the machine learning algorithms that we've talked about before and
put them into this form and that just tends to show how powerful new neural networks are.
Even without the hidden layers we are already where we have a representation that works for most other
machine learning algorithms.
But in neural networks what we do have is an extra advantage that gives us lots of flexibility and power
which is where that increase in accuracy comes from.
And that power is the hidden layers and there we go that's our here and there were added in and now
we're going to understand how that hit in Lair gives us that extra power.
And in fact to do that we're going to walk through an example so as we agreed this neural network has
already been trained up and now we're just going to plug in we're going to imagine that we're plugging
in a property and we're going to walk step by step through how the neural network will deal with the
input variables and calculate the Himalaya and then calculate the output layer.
So let's go through this is going to be exciting.
All right we've got all four variables on the left and we're going to first start with the top Nurin
on the hidden lair.
Now as we previously saw in the press and morals all of the neurons from the input layer they have Cynapsus
connecting it to each one of them to the top neuron in a hidden lair.
And those sytems have weights.
Now let's agree that some weights will have a non-zero value some ways will have zero value because
basically not all inputs will be valid or not all inputs will be important for every single neuron sometimes
inputs will not be important.
Here we can see two examples that X-1 makes three the area and the distance to the city and Miles are
important for that.
Whereas bedrooms and age are not like let's think about this for a second why how would that be the
case.
Like why would a neuron be linked to the area in the distance what does that what could that mean.
Well that could mean that normally the further we get from the city the cheaper real estate becomes
and therefore the space in square feet of properties becomes larger.
So for the same price you can get a lot of the further away you go from the city that's normal right.
That makes sense and probably what this neuron is doing is it is looking specifically it's like like
a sniper it's looking for area properties which have which are not so far from the city but have a large
area.
So for their distance from the city they have an unfair square foot area.
Right.
So something that's abnormal height is higher than average so they're quite close to the city but they're
still large as opposed to the other ones at the same distance.
And so that neuron again we're speculating here but that neuron might be picking out laser picking out
those specific properties and it will activate and hence the activation function it will activate will
fire up only when the certain criteria is met that you know the distance and the area of the proper
distance the city and the air of the area of the property and it performs on calculations inside itself
and it combines those two and as soon as certain areas when it fires up and that contributes to the
price in the output list and therefore this neuron doesn't really care about bedrooms and age of the
property because it's focused on that specific thing.
That's where the power of the neural network comes from because you have many of these years and all
see just now how the other ones work.
So but what I wanted to agree here is that let's not even draw these lines for the syllabuses that are
not in play so that we don't clutter up our image as the only reason we're not going to draw them so
let's just get rid of those too.
And that way we will know exactly OK so this neuron is focused on area and distance to the city.
All right.
So as long as we agree on that let's move on to next.
Let's take them one in the middle here we've got three parameters feeding into this neuron so we've
got the area the bedrooms and the age of the property.
So what could be the reason here.
Again let's try to understand the intuition and the thinking of this neuron.
How is this neuron thinking why is it picking these three programs what could it be.
What could have a head like found in the data.
Right so we've already established this trained up data set the training has happened a long time ago
maybe like a day ago or somebody is written up as it is now we're just applying and we know that this
neuron through all of the thousands of examples of properties has found out that the area plus the bedrooms
plus the age combination of those parameters is important.
Why could that be the case.
Well for instance maybe in that specific city in those suburbs that this neural network has been trained
up in perhaps there's a lot of families with kids who have two or more children who are looking for
large properties with lots of bedrooms which are new.
Which are not old properties because maybe that's in that area almost all are kind of like big properties
are usually old.
But there's lots of modern families and you know maybe there has been a social demographic shift and
or maybe there's been like a lot of like some growth in terms of employment and jobs for the younger
self population maybe just you know the like the population demographics have changed and now younger
couples or younger families are looking for properties but they prefer new property so they want the
age of the property to be lower and hence from the training that this neural network has undergone it
knows that when there's a property with a large area and with lots of better with at least three at
least three bedrooms for the parents for the first child the second child for at least three bedrooms
maybe a guest room when you property with high area and lots of bedrooms that is valued that in that
market that is valuable so that neuron has picked that up.
It knows that.
OK so this is what I'm going to be looking for.
I don't care about the distance to the city and Miles wherever it is.
As long as it has high area lots of bedrooms.
As soon as that criteria is met then you're on fire is up.
And the combination of these two parameters and this is again this is where the power of the neural
network is coming from because it combines these three parameters into a brand new parameter into brand
new attributes that helps with the evaluation.
The helps with the valuation of the property.
It combines them into an attribute and therefore it's more precise.
So there we go that's how that works.
And let's look at another one let's look at the very bottom one for us is this neuron could be could
even have picked up just one parameter it could have just picked up H and not in any of the other ones.
And how could that be the case.
Well this is a classic example of when age could mean like as we all know the older properties usually
it's less valuable because it's worn out.
Probably the building is old probably.
Now if things are falling apart more maintenance is required so the price drops in terms of the price
of the real estate.
Whereas a brand new building it would be more expensive because it's brand new but perhaps if a property
is over a certain age that could indicate that it's a historic property.
For instance if a property is under 100 years old then the older it is the less valuable it is.
But as soon as it jumps over 100 years old all of a sudden it becomes a historic property because this
is a property where people used to live hundreds of years ago.
It tells a story it's got all this history behind it and some people like that some people value that.
In fact quite a lot of people would like that and would be proud to live in a property and especially
in the higher socioeconomic classes they would show off to their friends or things like that and therefore
properties that are over 100 years old could be deemed as historic.
And therefore this neuron as soon as it sees a property over 100 years old.
It'll fire up and contribute to the overall price.
And otherwise if it's under 100 years old then it won't do and where it can.
This is a good example of that.
The rectifier function being applied.
So here you've got like a very like a zero until a certain point and then let's say 100 years old.
And then after 100 years old the older it gets the higher the value the higher the contribution of this
neuron to the overall price.
And there's just a wonderful example of a very simple example of this rectifier Fange function in action.
So there we go.
That could be this year.
And moreover the neural network could have picked up things that we wouldn't have thought of ourselves
right.
For instance bedrooms plus distance the city maybe that's in combination somehow contributes to the
price maybe it's not as strong as the other neurons and it contributes but it still contributes or maybe
it detracts from the price that could also be the case or other things like that and maybe add your
own picked up all for a combination of all four of these parameters.
And as you can see that these neurons this whole hidden layer situation allows you to increase the flexibility
of your neural network and allows you to really allows the neural network to look for very specific
things and then in combination that's where the power comes from it's like that example the answer I'd
like an ad by itself cannot build an anthill.
But when you have like a thousand or 100000 ads they can build an anthill together and that's that's
the situation you know.
Each one of these years by itself cannot predict the price.
But together they have super powers and they predict the price and they can do quite an accurate job
if trained properly set up properly.
And that's what this whole Course is about in understanding how to utilize them.
There we go so that is a step by step example and walk through of how neural networks actually work.
I hope you enjoyed today's tutorial and I can't wait to see you next time.
Until then enjoy deep learning.